http://www.lamsade.dauphine.fr/~tsoukias/papers/ChapitreV_8.pdf
Argumentation Theory and Decision Aiding

On the other hand, in the field of Artificial Intelligence, argumentation has been put forward as a very general approach allowing to support different kinds of decision-making [96, 102]

Typically, one will construct for each possible decision (alternative) a set of positive arguments, and a set of negative
arguments. 

Benefits: 
1. On the one hand, the user will be provided with a “good” choice and with the reasons underlying this recommendation, in a format that is easy to grasp. 
2. On the other hand, argumentation based decision making is more akin with the way humans deliberate and finally make a choice. 
3. Moreover, the arguments allows us to take into account the non monotonic aspect of a decision process and the problem of incomplete information.


Decision process & decision aiding

Decisions are not just an “act of choice”, they are the result of a “decision process”, a set of cognitive activities enabling to go from a “problem” (a state of the world perceived as a unsatisfactory) to its “solution”

Decision aiding: cognitive artifacts representing the modeling
of different element of the decision process are described and analysed.

1. a representation of a problem situation: the first deliverable consists in offering a representation of the problem situation for which the decision maker has asked the analyst to intervene.
2. a problem formulation: given a representation of the problem situation, the analyst may provide the decision maker with one or more problem formulation. The idea is that a problem formulation translates the client’s concern, using the decision suppport language, into a “formal problem”.
3. an evaluation model: For a given problem formulation, the analyst may construct an evaluation model, that is to organise the available information in such a way that it will be possible to obtain a formal answer to a problem statement.
4. a final recommendation: The evaluation model will provide an output which is still expressed in terms of the decision support language. The final recommendation is the final deliverable which translate the output into the decision maker’s language.
