http://www.nytimes.com/2013/01/09/technology/online-banking-attacks-were-work-of-iran-us-officials-say.html

Bank Hacking Was the Work of Iranians, Officials Say

Security researchers say that instead of exploiting individual computers, the attackers engineered networks of computers in data centers (DDoS attacks)

Evidence:
1.
(tech)
hackers remotely hijacked some of these clouds (Amazon and Google, but also by many smaller players) and used the computing power to take down American banking sites.

There’s a sense now that attackers are crafting their own private clouds, either by creating networks of individual machines or by stealing resources wholesale from poorly maintained corporate clouds

encrypted DDoS attacks

The skill required to carry out attacks on this scale 

(geopolitical context)
most likely in retaliation for economic sanctions and online attacks by the United States.

(op)
has convinced United States government officials and security researchers that they are the work of Iran

2. 
A hacker group calling itself Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters has claimed in online posts that it was responsible for the attacks.
The group said it attacked the banks in retaliation for an anti-Islam video that mocked the Prophet Muhammad, and pledged to continue its campaign until the video was scrubbed from the Internet. It called the campaign Operation Ababil, a reference to a story in the Koran in which Allah sends swallows to defeat an army of elephants dispatched by the king of Yemen to attack Mecca in A.D. 571.

(geopolitical context)
They claim Iran is waging the attacks in retaliation for Western economic sanctions and for a series of cyberattacks on its own systems. In the last three years, three sophisticated computer viruses — called Flame, Duqu and Stuxnet — have hit computers in Iran. The New York Timesreported last year that the United States, together with Israel, was responsible for Stuxnet, the virus used to destroy centrifuges in an Iranian nuclear facility in 2010.

(op)
But American intelligence officials say the group is actually a cover for Iran.

3. 
(tech)
Botnets, or networks of individual infected slave computers, can typically be traced back to a command and control center, but security experts say Itsoknoproblembro was engineered to make it very difficult to tie it to one party

(op)
suggests that the campaign may be state-sponsored versus amateur malware
